And This is Surprising How?
###########################
:date: 2005-07-05 18:58
:author: T-Boy

Got `this`_ from a `typical Malaysian`_, apparently:

.. raw:: html

   </p>

.. raw:: html

   <p>

    .. raw:: html

       </p>

    **KUALA LUMPUR**, July 4 (Bernama) — Information Minister Datuk Seri
    Abdul Kadir Sheikh Fadzir has acknowledged difficulty in getting
    government messages across to the people because the public was more
    interested in entertainment matters.

    .. raw:: html

       </p>

    He said the ministry's budget was increased every year but the
    messages it delivered lacked impact.

    .. raw:: html

       </p>

    “Although the role of departments and agencies under the ministry
    appears comprehensive, there are still many people who have little
    understanding of issues and problems that are reported.

    .. raw:: html

       </p>

    “This has resulted in the public often questioning and not
    supporting government policies,” he said at a briefing conducted by
    the ministry for Barisan Nasional Members of Parliament here Monday.

    .. raw:: html

       </p>

    Ministry Secretary–General Datuk Seri Dr Arshad Hashim, in his
    briefing, said RTM faced tough competition on dissemination of
    information from VCDs and the internet.

    .. raw:: html

       </p>

    He said the problem was compounded by the popularity in using SMS to
    convey information.

    .. raw:: html

       </p>

    .. raw:: html

       <p>

.. raw:: html

   </p>

The Malaysian Government having a hard time trying to get their messages
to the rakyat? Quelle Surprise! No, really? Wow, who'd have thunk?

.. raw:: html

   </p>

It's amusing to see. How many of you feel as if you are working with the
government, instead of working around or against it? Is it our fault
that we perceive the government to be obscurantist, obstinate,
dangerously mercurial and mostly irrational?

.. raw:: html

   </p>

And we have high–ranking executive officers of the Law of the Land
wondering why we won't listen to them — why, whenever they say
something, they're met with indifferent silence or protest, protest,
protest.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

Well, the protesters are the newbies, the idealists — they're protesting
because they don't know any better. The silent ones aren't silent
because we're happy with what we're told — I don't *think* so. It's just
that we've learnt, through trial and painful error, to not listen and
work out ways to do what we want.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

No one wants to listen to crap they don't have a stake in. Apart from
the obvious, essential thing like Law and Order, and food, utilities and
shelter, I don't think we really don't care what the government does,
simply because no matter what is done, I'm pretty sure the rakyat don't
get to give any kind of input, apart from the token, “speaking to the
rakyat” kind of deal. Say what you want about policy, morality, religion
or whatever.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

No one pays attention because so few people have a say in this.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

Contrast this with, say, Akademi Fantasia. With Akademi Fantasia, who
wins, essentially, boils down to [STRIKEOUT:how many idiots can vote for
Mawi] how many people will vote for your favourite [STRIKEOUT:character
grinning nitwit helpless pawn of Corporate Malaysiana] artiste. It
doesn't matter if the judges call [STRIKEOUT:Mas] your favourite artiste
a talentless nincompoop! You just vote [STRIKEOUT:like a fucking
lunatic] and your artiste will win! [STRIKEOUT:And be subjected to
hilariously stupid advertising deals!]

.. raw:: html

   </p>

That, ladies and gentlemen, is [STRIKEOUT:mob rule] democracy in action.
If only the government could do something like this. Combine the dreaded
SMS, villain of every governmental agency [STRIKEOUT:and washed-up
and/or budding music superstar,] with governmental policy, and watch
people (at least some of us at any rate) *take an interest*.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

Imagine! Proceedings of Dewan Rakyat, televised with live chat, with the
requisite “MP PERMATANG PAUH POYO!!!!11” messages! SMS votes on the
news, not only about important yet incredibly brain-damaged policy
decisions, but also if Sharizat should continue talking to Rafidah,
who's dissed her on ‘confession hour’! Fistfights in parliamentary
debate! It'd be so disgraceful it'd bring the ratings *up the roof*!

.. raw:: html

   </p>

It'll happen in `Bizarro`_ Malaysia first, I suspect.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

Come to think of it….

.. raw:: html

   </p>

.. _this: http://www.bernama.com/bernama/v3/printable.php?id=143352
.. _typical Malaysian: http://typicalmalaysian.blogspot.com/2005/07/malaysians-keen-on-entertainment.html
.. _Bizarro: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bizarro
