Completely Missing The Point
############################
:date: 2005-07-16 14:55
:author: T-Boy

I'm not going to deny that `100,000 people`_ `died`_ `in Iraq`_. Let's
not fudge the issue, okay? Iraq's a fucking mess, and it shouldn't have
happened at all.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

We Know, Already.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. raw:: html

   </p>

I'm not going to even quibble about the scale of death that's happened
in what we all facetiously call the ‘civilized world’, compared to the
death we see in, oh, I don't know, Iraq, Israel, the ten thousand
military hot spots around the world where life is very expensive but hot
fiery death is free and more often than not comes jumbo–sized for the
whole family. Because it's true.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

It's true that more people die in these places, and that the climate has
been so soaked in death and misery that the only sane response to people
who live there is to throw their lives into the furnace, and feed the
flames. Yes, it's fucking insane and it's fucking tragic.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

The “Yes, Massa” Reflex.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. raw:: html

   </p>

And yes, let us not forget how sucky it can be to be on the losing side
of history. Let us rekindle our grudges against our Great Western Former
Masters and repeat the same old story about how we always invariably get
the shaft. Look, our anuses are sore already, but feel free to fuck us
with your Great White Dick, O Gweilo, it's not as if we can stop you
anyway.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

Whenever someone brings up those numbers, and starts whining about how
it's all the West's fault, I roll my eyes. Any more rolling and I'll
look like an epileptic, but that's what I do nowadays. Because that's
what it is, whining.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

Stupidity, 70% Off
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. raw:: html

   </p>

Stopping terrorism isn't easy. It's never easy, because it means not
doing the stupid and cheap thing and packing as much explosives as you
can conceal, getting into public transportation, and blowing the shit
out of your fellow citizens. Or sitting down on your ass and calling the
Other Dude “barbarians”.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

It means not looking at your enemy like he is Satan, Dajjal, Safari-Hat
Dude with Pipe and Goliath and deciding, “Hey, he doesn't want to listen
to us. He'll never listen to us, because he's That Way”, thus exalting
his power and debasing his humanity. Because exalting someone's power
and debasing his humanity is the cheap way of doing things, and stupid,
because the only thing that'll come out of it is more dead people, and
possibly a dead you.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

No Thinking, Act Only?
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. raw:: html

   </p>

So yeah. Talk about Western Imperialism. Never realize that you know,
for once in our long and sordid history as a people, a race, a religion,
these people are offering a hand in friendship and *trying to listen*.
They're polite enough to not convert you first up; they can try that
later, and if we're strong and secure enough in our faith and culture we
can say no.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

Sit on your ass and whine. Or plot to kill more people to fuck them up
so that they can fuck us up and continue the cycle. Don't think, or
listen. Don't stop, and don't listen to these people, these barbarians.
Ironically, in calling them barbarians, we repeat the same mistake they
did, long ago — the mistake of not listening, of thinking we know how
they will think and act, the way their great-great grandfathers were
certain of what we were and what we were capable of and what was good
for us.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

They're paying for it now, in terrorism and death. I wonder what the
bill for our foolishness and arrogance will look like.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

.. _100,000 people: http://www.nst.com.my/Current_News/NST/Saturday/Columns/20050716075505/Article/indexb_html
.. _died: http://www.zsarina.com/deepbluesea/2005/07/who_are_the_bar.html
.. _in Iraq: http://ktemoc.blogspot.com/2005/07/why-terrorism-will-continue.html
