Hard Science, Fuzzy Belief
##########################
:date: 2005-11-21 17:48
:author: T-Boy

I agree with a lot of what `Richard Dawkins`_ says, especially with his
views on pseudo-science, New Age beliefs, and the current obsession with
combining science and religion into one coherent, harmonious whole.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

I think, like him, that it’s a load of crock. It’s bullshit, it’s
stupid, it leads to bad science and even worse religion.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

I’ll get to that bit a little later. Here’s the funny clincher, though—I
think Dawkins, and atheists in general, have gotten religion wrong.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

The Un-Nameable Cause
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. raw:: html

   </p>

The ironic thing about my beliefs is that I am a hard scientist. I like
my science hard and deterministic, the universe devoid of any intrinsic
unifying meaning, there being no Great Bearded Being in the sky.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

And yet, I am a Muslim. Yes, I hold witness to the affirmation that
there is no God but Allah, and Muhammad is his messenger.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

It seems like there’s a contradiction there. Let’s leave that
contradiction for a bit and revisit it later.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

Reason and reason alone.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. raw:: html

   </p>

Listen to the fight between the forces of Reason and Enlightenment
versus the forces of Faith and Superstition and you’d think that there
was only one way of seeing the world, One True Way, and all other ways
were… well, stupid. Foolish. Misguided. Nonsense, meaningless.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

This of course fails to take into account on what role faith and reason
have in the modern world. We know reason has a role—take away reason and
you can see the immediate consequences, economically, politically,
militarily. But it seems that if you take away faith, nothing happens.
Apparently.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

Which is ironic, since religious fundamentalism and New Age quackery is
on the rise, despite our best damn efforts to leave superstitious
claptrap behind. The promised fruits of abandoning Old-World
Superstition—the end of killing, the abandonment of war, the elimination
of self-righteous blindness—seems even further than ever.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

One of the arguments that anti-religious people seem to trot out—that
religions inspires people to do horrible, *horrible* things—looks hollow
in the face of this cold historical fact: that the driving force behind
the the biggest human and technological catastrophes of the past 100
hundred years wasn’t even religion.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

The Real Killer
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. raw:: html

   </p>

It isn’t. Take the top five catastrophes. And I mean the *top five*, in
terms of what impact it had on how many people. You’d be surprised.
September 11th, however horrible it was, doesn’t even come close to what
we can do to each other.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

Hiroshima. Chernobyl. The Soviet Gulags. The Killing Fields. The Great
Leap Forward. Exxon Valdez. While to say that religion didn’t play a
part in at least some of these is *preposterous*—but it wasn’t the
be-all and end-all. There were other causes—technology run amuck.
Nationalism. Racial hatred. Ideological insanity.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

Even the even that shaped our national policy *today*—the May 13th
riots—was less about religion and more about the politics of race and
economics of inequality. Religion wasn’t fashionable *then*, as it is
now. We did not need to cry out for ‘jihad’ then as we do now.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

But the parade of horrors I’ve just shown you was meant to tell you one
thing—you do not need religion to justify your horrors. We thought it
was, once. We were wrong.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

But enough of that. Let’s talk about something else.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

Meat and Bread.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. raw:: html

   </p>

But what good is religion? It doesn’t explain the universe—it’s
*terrible* at it, and attempts like Intelligent Design and trying to
justify universal events through Scripture just read like a rather
pathetic attempt of stealing the throne science wrested away very
recently—at least in historical terms—from religion.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

You’ve lost the throne, children. Move on.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. raw:: html

   </p>

Science does a great job in giving us *explanations*. It doesn’t do a
lot good for *meaning*... at least for me. Some people don’t need it,
which is why they can find wonder and joy in the real world. But those
people aren’t everyone, at least not yet. Maybe not ever.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

For others, there’s always those nagging questions: “Why? What are we
doing here? Do we need to do anything? What is the sum total meaning of
my life, really? Am I here merely to exist, to breed until I cannot, and
then, to merely die? Why should I?”

.. raw:: html

   </p>

And here’s the moment where you think I’ll sell you religion, right?

.. raw:: html

   </p>

The search of meaning
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. raw:: html

   </p>

That, ladies and gentlemen, is what preoccupies us a lot these days. We
look for something to anchor us, to give us context in our lives, to
make some sense of it all. Yes, we are a collection of baryonic
particles held together by coincidence and goo, transient and
evanescent.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

Try getting out of bed in the morning for that. Believe me, I tried. For
two fucking years. Didn’t work. Got diagnosed with depression.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

The Real Use of Religion
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. raw:: html

   </p>

Religion is a tool, much like anything else is a tool. I am a Muslim,
because, you know, that’s what I am. I tried atheism for a while, you
know. I couldn’t do it—I was raised a Muslim, and turning away from God
felt impossible. Rather than tear myself away from Him, and risk
damaging something, I came back. I made peace with myself.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

I could never hope to be a *good* Muslim, so I settled with being just a
Muslim. I relearnt the language of my religion, the cadences that
*spoke* to me\ :sup:``1`_` in a way that philosophy and reason didn’t. I
moved away from the absurdity and the contradiction inherent in *any*
religion, and found that that contradiction masked a deeper meaning that
really can’t be expressed in words. You have to experience it to *get*
it.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

Meaning?
~~~~~~~~

.. raw:: html

   </p>

When you don’t have meaning, life is empty, pointless. It doesn’t have
to be religion—you can believe in your fellow man, in a political
ideology, in your family, in your culture, in something,
*anything*—we’re adaptive that way. But look for something, and hold on
to it.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

I chose Islam, `Hani`_ and my family. `centerpide`_ chose Jesus and
Christianity, and hey, that works for him. Other people choose mystical
and magical paths, others choose relgion, a few adopt a philosophy of
life, others devote their lives to serving others or escaping desire and
pain.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

Everyone has their own goddamn path, and there’s not a lot you can do to
convince the other person to your way—only to guide them into whatever
it is they need.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

It isn’t religion that’s the danger, to be honest—it’s being blind to
the truth, that there are other people around you, and that not all of
them share what you believe. To live in the modern world means
abandoning any kind of ideological certainty, or to be in danger of
repeating the same meaningless horror over and over again.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

No, it’s not pleasant or easy. But since when has life ever been *that*?

.. raw:: html

   </p>

Fütnotes.
^^^^^^^^^

.. raw:: html

   </p>

:sup:`1` And that was the thing that people don’t get about Osama bin
Laden. He *used* language, at least in the early days of him in hiding,
in a way no non-Muslim or moderate Muslim could. They were *good* at it.
We had a lot of catching up to do. We still do.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

.. _Richard Dawkins: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Richard_Dawkins
.. _1: #fn1
.. _Hani: http://hanishoney.bebudak.net/
.. _centerpide: http://centerpide.net/2005/11/21/having-faith-the-ultimate-requirement/
