Morality? Pshaw.
################
:date: 2005-06-04 00:11
:author: T-Boy

Poor Mack. For months I ignore every single one of his posts, and then,
the `one`_ post that moves me to act doesn't even get me to comment on
his entry. I have to blog it here, and steal off traffic from him by
Trackbacking him. Oh well.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

It's like this. Government asks the people if it's a good idea to
distribute free condoms and hypodermic needles. Of course, predictably,
religious authorities flip out. I was guessing that the Muslims
authorities, typical of them, would flip out. Oh, and possibly the
Catholics. But it looks like `they're all flipping out`_. How nice.
Makes you want to be an atheist, it does.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

There doesn't seem to be a whole lot of difficulty for me. *I* don't
have to flip out. Maybe because it's because I'm used to feeling and
doing immoral things? You never know.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

While it is immoral to endorse and condone the act of premarital and
extramarital sex and intravenous drug use, it is far more immoral to
refuse treatment and prevention to people who may need it. And by
prevention, yes, that means needles and condoms, no matter how
distasteful it is to our sensibilities.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

It is a matter of who is most harmed by what we do and endorse. And as
far as I'm concerned, we harm more by not trying to prevent it and
reduce its scope for harm. Distributing condoms and free hypodermic
needles, *with the proper education for its use*, reduces the scope for
diseases like AIDS to harm. Not reducing harm tends to be an immoral
act. Therefore, preventing the spread of free condoms and needles tends
to be an immoral act.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

There's definitely a leap of logic over there, which no doubt will be
tediously discussed by wonderfully tedious people, who may not realize
that by the time that they hash out their Logic 101 books *I will no
longer give a shit*. That's apathy for you.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

While it may be a spurious argument, at least I take comfort that while
I have leaps of logic, nothing beats “spreading the use of condoms and
hypodermic needles == condoning and encouraging immorality”. Whatever
let's you sleep at night.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

That's all there is to it. The lives and deaths of sinners do not come
anywhere near to the issue. That's up to them to decide — we can only do
what we must, which is to try and prevent more harm from happening to
people who may not deserve what may happen to them.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

Now, was that so difficult?

.. raw:: html

   </p>

.. _one: http://www.brandmalaysia.com/movabletype/archives/2005/06/should_morality.html
.. _they're all flipping out: http://www.nst.com.my/Current_News/NST/Friday/Frontpage/20050603081034/Article/indexb_html
