Of Real Compassion.
###################
:date: 2004-10-26 14:43
:author: T-Boy

From Jeff's `post`_.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

There are times when I want to cry. There are times when I want to
scream in anger and hate. There are times when I don't just not want to
play the game any more, but to also smash the board.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

I've heard, over the years, about how compassionate and charitable our
nation is. We've all heard the slogans and seen the striving -- the talk
about how helping others is a noble, kind, thing, and that charity and
compassion separates us from [STRIKEOUT:animals] richer nations.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

But, apart from the expansive and magnamonious gestures we make in terms
of charity donations and hunger-fests, I don't see a whole lot of
compassion in ourselves. Not even in me.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

We can blather on about how children in Darfur and our poor need our
help and kindness, and yet we can ignore *`this`_ until it was too
late*? And then, just after she's gone through this *hell*, we want to
**punish her some more**?

.. raw:: html

   </p>

Why? She's suffered pain and shame. She was so afraid, she hid the facts
from everyone around her. You know why she hid from you — she knew what
you'd do to her if you found out. She knew you wouldn't offer any help
in making this all right again, or repairing what harm that's been done.
She knew that if she confessed to what she had done, you'd beat her and
deride her for being ‘immoral’.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

She's given fucking birth. Alone. With no one to hold her hand, to
support her, to lead her through a difficult, painful and terrible
ordeal. So, after all this, you're going to punish her by expelling her
from university, in what would curse her into a position where she would
not be able to support her baby?

.. raw:: html

   </p>

I know *you*. I've known you all my life.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

Why not go all the way? Why not take away her child, give it to the
Welfare Department? Why not ostracize her, publish her name in public,
parade her face for all to see, shame her as an example for others? Why
not put her in jail?

.. raw:: html

   </p>

Why don't you just be merciful and kill her instead?

.. raw:: html

   </p>

It'd save you the damn money and effort.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

.. _post: http://www.jeffooi.com/archives/2004/10/undergrad_mum_a.php
.. _this: http://thestar.com.my/news/story.asp?file=/2004/10/24/nation/9217861&sec=nation
