Reason and Hollow Lives.
########################
:date: 2005-06-20 18:53
:author: T-Boy

I've been reading `this`_ book while at work, to while away the hours.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

It was on my father's shelf for months now, and I've been wanting to
read it forever, since I've been a fan of `Karen Armstrong`_.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

And `Ash's post`_ made me think about it, today.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

Fundamentalism. Let's face it, if you're here, you hate fundamentalists,
or at least have some kind of dim view about them. So much of what
fundies are promotes bad science and even worse religion, and has ruined
and made the lives of people around the world difficult.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

I've always known, reading from her writings, that fundamentalism was
tied to modernity — that it was a harsh rejection of modernity, and a
literal reading of scripture, at least for Abrahamaic faiths. What I
didn't know was the fundamentalism was a *modern* movement — yes, a
movement that was born in modern times, but also incorporating modern
ideas like the separation of *mythos* (the irrational, mythic component
of ideology) and *logos* (the rational, pragmatic component of
ideology).

.. raw:: html

   </p>

What Armstrong explained to me was why and how modernity created
fundamentalism, and the deep-seated neurosis that persists, even to this
day, among rational scientific thought.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

Let me be clear. Neither Armstrong nor I, as far as I can tell, think
modernity is evil. It was necessary, because it helped us out of a
deadly resource trap that plagued pre-modern agrarian societies. But to
get to it, its progenitors had to, in a sense, separate myth and
rationality.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

Let me put it to you this way. To ask a man, who lived in the Middle
Ages, or a man who lives and still lives in a pre-modern world whether
the events depicted in the Qur'an or Scripture actually happened is to
miss the fundamental point. To a pre-modern man, there is no distinction
to what happened in myth and what happened in reality. Yes, God did make
the Earth in Seven Days. Yes, Man was an evolved ape. Both ideas could
be accepted, with little or not contradiction.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

And we're not talking about mud huts here. We're talking about
civilizations that invented algebra, number theory, and shit like that.
Yes, the Classical Greeks, yes, the Caliphate Muslims, yes, the Ming
Dynasty and yes, the Egyptians. They weren't primitive idiots, but they
were pre-Modern.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

What makes a Modern man is, or at least, was his reliance on reason and
reason alone to get the truth. That's a great way to succeed
politically, economically and socially, by the way — look at the
Europeans and Americans. They drive scientific and political discourse,
and dominate the world's economy. That's something you cannot run away
from.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

But to get there, for them, took 300 years of bloodshed, pain and
suffering. Now think of the Muslims who were their neighbours, and
later, their vassals. They were forced into Modernity, and were made to
adapt it in a span of less than a century.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

We're still struggling. Look at the people in your life, who hover
between scientific rationalism and their older, mythical and traditional
lives. Living a modern life meant abandoning your culture, to the early
modern Muslims. And if you were trained in a non-traditional way, you'd
look at your culture askance.

I know I did. I know `Hani`_ does, at least in some points. Many
bloggers, good people, would dearly love to be Good Muslims or Good
Christians or Good Whatevers. Sometimes, retreating into reason could
not be enough — while reason is good at the what, it isn't very good at
the how.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

We need myth in our lives. It isn't enough to feed the mind and
intellect and body and pocket; man needs to feed his soul. Some retreat
to magic. Others retreat to music, or art, or love, or pleasure, or
pain, or reason. Many more retreat to religion — at least, they used to.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

Sadly, being a religious typically means being antithetical to reason,
at least now. Many people now have a hard time reconciling religion with
science. It should be the case — if anything, myth and reason are good
at two separate things. Myth, taken into a practical context, leads to
disaster and pain; reason, in an attempt to give meaning to one's life,
leads to despair and pain.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

Is it fundamentalism's fault? Hardly. Fundamentalism is a new
development, postdating modernity by decades. Was it modernity's fault?
It seems that way, but I don't think so. What was at fault is a
recurring tale in human history — human foible and frailty causing pain
and death. Proponents of modernism were not to blame — what they merely
sook was the truth. Conservatives were not to blame — what they sook was
certainty, in a world that seemed intent on falling apart around them.
It simply happened; no one factor is responsible for our sad state
today.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

And what a sad state it is. Torn between madness and hollowness, most
Malaysians and members of developing nations stand adrift. We yearn to
be fed from one spring or the other, and in pursuing both, gain neither.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

Mind you, I'm only halfway through this book. And it's a gloomy read.
It's a tragic tale of loss, arrogance, madness and ignorance. Not only
from the poor, the religious and the ignorant, but also from the
so-called enlightened, both religious and secular.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

.. _this: http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/tg/detail/-/0345391691/qid=1119264406/sr=8-1/ref=pd_csp_1/102-5150168-5632938?v=glance&s=books&n=507846
.. _Karen Armstrong: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Karen_Armstrong
.. _Ash's post: http://insaneox.org/blog/?p=897
.. _Hani: http://hanishoney.bebudak.net
