So. Tell Me Something.
######################
:date: 2004-10-13 22:03
:author: T-Boy

I sin. I sin a lot. Every day, in fact. I am in no way a ‘good Muslim’,
although I try to be a good person. As impossible as it sounds to some
people.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

I also know a lot of sinners. There are a lot of them, you know — far
more than you'd like to think. I've spoken to them, read what they've
written, broken bread with them, laughed at their jokes, listen to their
confessions, and generally enjoy their company.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

Or not. Sinners are a diverse lot, and our liking to one another varies
— there are plenty of sinners out there I cannot stand.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

But one thing I seem to hear a lot about are well-meaning comments about
the state of sin these people are in. You'll know what I'm talking
about: the sermons on pre-marital sex to those who engage in them, the
castigation on drinking to those who indulge in the bottle (I have. I
occasionally do. I will occasionally do so in the future), lectures on
how a life of worship and humilty will do an ‘arrogant’ person good.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

Perhaps you've had people done it to you. Perhaps you do that to people
like me, sinners in life who have either made mistakes, or like making
those mistakes and indulge in them.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

For those who do, let me ask you something. I have known a friend, a
woman, who used to talk on her blog about her sex life. I also know the
guy she had sex with on a regular basis — have, for many years. I do
know that after a while, a bunch of people started congregating on her
blog and castigating her for premarital sex, telling her that it is a
sin in the eyes of God. I believe she knows this, but for some reason,
the castigation did not stop her from sinning.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

Here's the clincher. The blog that these sordid deeds are in is no
longer active; so there's no point in sending you folks a link. But on
that blog, I believe, were links to her boyfriend. I believe it was to
his blog (also inactive), and on his blog there were email addresses.
His email addresses, I believe.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

So tell me this: Why didn't you go ‘advise’ the other member of the
party to stop sinning? Why didn't you lecture him on the perils of
premarital sex, and urge him to change his ways? Why did you only heckle
the girl and not the man, knowing full well that both share the same sin
and both are equally guilty in the eyes of God? Why didn't you send him
advice, however unsolicited, with the hopes that he would listen, and
change?

I know he didn't receive any messages or missives from concerned
Muslims. Was it because blogger was a woman, and only women are
responsible for the sin of zina? Or were you afraid of talking to the
man, and the only people you harass are the ‘weak’ and the unprotected?

.. raw:: html

   </p>

So, tell me. Why not both of them? Why is it, that when a woman does
something bad, and a man does the same something bad, the one who gets
the crap is the woman and not the man? Why are women smokers lectured
upon, and the men smokers ignored? Why are the ‘slutty’ women vilified
and humiliated in the public, while the man ‘players’ ignored, or heaven
knows, secretly envied and admired?

.. raw:: html

   </p>

Is this because of the other person's sin, or is this about yours?

.. raw:: html

   </p>

