Staring at a blank page.
########################
:date: 2004-11-30 02:20
:author: T-Boy

What does it feel like to fail?

.. raw:: html

   </p>

Earlier this year, I did something that at that time seemed impossible
to me.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

I conceded defeat. I decided, after a long, painful and horribly
unpleasant experience, to withdraw from `Middlesex University`_ and go
back home. And I did this without even saying a word to my parents about
it.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

I was never born with a silver spoon in my mouth. Oh, no, it's shiny
like silver, but it isn't silver — it's cheaper than silver, but only by
a small margin, because the amount of craftsmanship and hard work that
went to it meant that it worked as well as a silver spoon, and on the
plus side you'd be able to use it anywhere without looking like a ponce.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

That spoon was my family's successes. My father is well-known in the
industry he works in as one of the few local film directors who can turn
out international-standard works. He's the one responsible for the first
few brilliant Raya ads that now spawns a million rather shoddy
imitators. That's him. I'm his son.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

My mother is one of the few career women in a multinational in this
country to get into a high position without having to resort to Datinry
— she's probably one of the few women in high positions at her age who
still looks good in a power suit, and doesn't dress in a *kurung*.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

Out of all of my uncles, almost all of them are succesful professionals
in their fields. One of them is the head of the board of a very famous
local corporation. I won't even go to what both my grandfathers did.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

This isn't boasting. God help me, I do not feel any pride reciting any
of this to you, because this is what I had to live up to since I was a
child. Live up to, and fail. Repeatedly.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

I am not academically brilliant, like my sister or my cousins. I am not
socially ‘succesful’ like my brother. My intelligence stops just outside
the realm of the practical, and the only practical knowledge I can claim
is merely scant experience in about two dozen or so programming
environments or software tools. Oh, I am witty, but all that wit falls
apart in groups of more than six, and I spent five years as an outcast
in high school.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

I am, still, however, privileged. I am born into a middle-upper-class
family. I am brilliant, or so I have been told. I have never known
poverty, hunger, intellectual deprivation or any lack in amenities. My
parents have made every effort to make sure that I got the best
education and erudition their money could buy, and it was good
education, or at least as good an education as anyone could get.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

And yet I failed. I had, as one of the ladies who worked in the office
where I finally placed the withdrawal form said not unkindly, ‘thrown
away an opportunity’. One that apparently fell onto my lap.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

When faced with an accusation like this, I can no longer feel any anger,
or remorse, or defensiveness. All I feel is… nothing.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

Yes. You're right. I threw it all away.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

Goodbye.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

.. _Middlesex University: http://www.mdx.ac.uk/
