The Joy of Disconnection.
#########################
:date: 2005-07-17 02:47
:author: T-Boy

I blog.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

I could say, “I'm a blogger” and that's true too, but I'm also a son, a
brother, a co-worker, a lover and a friend. I'm all of these things, but
not completely any of these things. I have parents and siblings; I work
with people; I love someone; and I am glad to call a number of people my
friends.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

But I blog. This everyone knows. And I've been blogging regularly for
the past… while. I don't keep track.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

The Hollowness of Being [STRIKEOUT:A Computing Student].
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. raw:: html

   </p>

It's uncomfortable. I don't mind admitting this, and since I've already
my made my confessions about the veracity of my statements on this
medium, I don't need to enlighten you about the truth in this statement.
But yes, I find the notion that I've returned to regular blogging to be…
uncomfortable.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

I was trained in Computing Science, and I graduated with a degree in
Business Information Systems. Before beginning my training, I was
obsessed with computers — so much so that my father had to enforce what
seemed, at that time, punitive measures against me abusing my time on
the computer. I was a computer geek, as anyone could have seen, and
everyone knew I wanted to work with computers when I left secondary
school.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

Several years of feeling like I was being trained for nothing but
computer and software repair, and I've somewhat revised my view. Part of
it stemmed from the fact that Malaysian tertiary education, frankly, is
terrible; it was outdated, slow, old-fashioned and tedious, and I did
not feel what my parents described as being educated and illuminated;
only the sinking suspicion that I was merely being trained.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

Post Coitum Omne Animal Tristis Est
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. raw:: html

   </p>

It always felt like I was missing something, even though I felt
overwhelmed at the new things that were being crammed in my head. Useful
things, no doubt, but like a person who spent his life anticipating and
desiring something, and, after having done it, realizing that it was not
as spectacular as I had imagined it, I realized that I wanted something
more than this.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

So I changed my mode of study, and eschewed computers. When I unplug
myself, either voluntarily or by the cruel sisters, Fate, Line Quality
and Crappy Customer Service, I did not experience the panic or the
emptiness most bloggers I know seem to describe. I felt… free.

Without the Internet, I found I could do more; not because of the
materials I had, but because of the lack of distraction.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

Any Choice But The Choice of Walking Away.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. raw:: html

   </p>

Like a man who loses extensive, infintely useful toolbox, and was left
with naught but a pen-knife, I realized I could do more with a penknife
than I could imagine, simply because my choices became clear.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

But that hasn't happened of late; mainly because I haven't had the
chance. When I work, I am, by necessity, connected to the Internet. When
I am home, out of a desire to distract myself and unwind, I find myself
on the Internet. The only times when I'm not wired is when I'm with
friends, or family, or by myself, away from the umbillical cord that
connects me to the big Wide Wired World.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

I'm missing that clarity. I want it back.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

(post inspired by `this`_).

.. raw:: html

   </p>

.. _this: http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/technology/4682123.stm
