Two Women.
##########
:date: 2005-06-18 23:13
:author: T-Boy

Women! O Man, Have I Got A Story To Tell You.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

Well, actually, not really. `This`_ entry got me thinking, actually,
about the women I'm surrounded with.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

Most people who know me know that I spend an inordinate amount of time
with `this particular blogger`_. I mean, come on, it's quickly evident
if you meet up with us or something. And it's typically an ‘us’ — it got
to the point that `this sarky bugger`_ calls us “T-Unit”.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

I'll have you know that it's *TH*-Unit, excuse me.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

Anyway. `Pick Yin`_ wonders if she could be classified as a ‘difficult
woman’. *I* don't think so. If you have a problem with intelligent,
independent women, you'd have a problem, yes, and frankly your problems
won't stop there. But is being frank, intelligent, independent a
problem?

.. raw:: html

   </p>

Hani's been described, even by herself, as someone difficult. If
anything, actually, Hani's not. She's probably a lot less difficult than
Pick Yin is, because if there's anyone who is uncomplicated about life,
it's Hani.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

Mind you, I'm not accusing her of being simple, or stupid. She's not.
I'm saying that she's complex, sure — you'd probably not scratch her
surface the first time you meet her. Yes, even though you feel like you
have, because Hani broadcasts her attitude towards life and her opinions
loud and clear — no pussyfooting around *her*.

That's the uncomplicated part of Hani — you could probably condense her
philosophy to life into a handful of fairly straightforward directives,
and you'd realize that she'd follow then almost all the time. Yes,
Hani's American.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

Anyway. Pick Yin? She's a lot more reserved than Hani is. Of course that
means you've got to get past that layer of reservedness that she uses.
It's a very Asian thing, very Malaysian — I'm not embarassed to admit
that I couldn't remember her the first time we met.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

But I got to know her, and she's been one of my better friends in the
blogging community. She and Hani have one thing in common — both are
frank, both are honest, both are relatively uncomplicated. Both do not
manipulate overtly. In my dealings with the both of them, I have never
felt like a fool. Not once.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

You have no idea how rare and precious that is to me. Most women *here*,
I've noticed, labor under the delusion that they must be… something
else. They're not satisfactory enough; they must become more demure,
more kind, more loving, more beautiful, more fair, more sexy, more
polite, more moral… whatever. But suffice to say that they themselves
are not enough. Yes, even those who are ‘liberated’.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

I've never had a problem with either Pick Yin or Hani. If both were
equal, I'd marry either one, or both (haa! Cries of horror from the
audience! SCANDAL!). Hani's got the advantage of knowing me better than
Pick Yin does, and we both trust each other *implicitly*. There's a
reason why we're called ‘T-Unit’ by waggish fellow-bloggers, but that's
another post altogether.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

But it's a close call, relatively. Besides, I don't think Pick Yin
looking for matrimony anyway… ;)

.. raw:: html

   </p>

.. _This: http://pickyin.blogspot.com/2005/06/py-helluo-librorum.html
.. _this particular blogger: http://hanishoney.bebudak.net/
.. _this sarky bugger: http://insaneox.org
.. _Pick Yin: http://pickyin.blogspot.com/
