When Doubt Strikes
##################
:date: 2004-09-20 21:07
:author: T-Boy

*This post originally appeared in the `Book Review Blog`_. Fuck! Sorry,
Grace.*

.. raw:: html

   </p>

I just spent twenty minutes trying to convince a particularly stubborn
piece of hardware to work, with no sign of success. It's frustrating,
but everytime something technical gets beyond what I know, I get…
doubtful.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

It's an old, old feeling, one that gets submerged with the business of
well, *living*. But small things like this, and the realization that I
haven't touched a proper IDE or worked on a ‘proper’ programming
language (oh, like, I don't know, C. Java. C++. Python. Perl. SQL… ah ha
ha ha, okay, maybe not SQL) for almost a year, or when I concede that I
don't know (to people I can trust) or bluff my way out of admitting that
I don't know (to people I don't) the answer to that techie question….

.. raw:: html

   </p>

Yeah. How does someone deal with not knowing what's supposed to be your
bread and butter? How does someone deal with the fact that you may not
want to be what you've always wanted to be, or that you don't want to be
what you used to want to be anymore?

.. raw:: html

   </p>

Experience? Time? I know what people say — I learn nothing while in
college; I'll pick it up when I start working. But it's not necessarily
something I *want* to learn. The dry rapture of programming, the
esoteric knowledge of design… what if I don't want it anymore?

.. raw:: html

   </p>

I've begun to realize, at least in my life, that I cannot maintain
interest in something for a meaningful period of time. There is a part
of me that fears what seems like an inevitable truth — that focus, that
dedication, that elusive thing that drives people to greatness, *may
simply be out of my grasp*. I get bored too fast, it seems.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

What, then? Learn to cope? Learn to accept the inevitable fact that
everything I do will eventually bore and exhaust me? Spend the rest of
my life bouncing from one thing to another, hoping for me to settle into
something, knowing that I never will? Learn to live the life of an
intellectual dabbler, perpetually learning but never mastering?

.. raw:: html

   </p>

Or am I deluding myself again, the way the overly-dramatic do? Every
time I feel like this, I hear my father's voice dismissing my fears,
telling me that thoughts like that are for the weak-willed and the
foolish. Even that is in doubt. Am I? My time with Hani seems to cast
that in doubt — everything I've gone through with Hani seems to
contradict everything I've known about myself.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

A friend of mine, Jennifer, would probably smile at all this and pat my
hand. A Southern girl with a tolerance of alcohol I haven't yet seen
equalled in man or beast, she's training to be a psychoanalyst,
following the thoughts and writings of `Jacques Lacan`_. “You're an
obsessive” she'd tell me. “You'll always question yourself.”

.. raw:: html

   </p>

Oh, anything for a little more certainty in me.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

.. _Book Review Blog: http://bookreviewblog.blogspot.com/
.. _Jacques Lacan: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jacques_Lacan
